1. I am a process in which electrons are emitted.
2. It is usually arranged that I emit electrons into an evacuated space.
3. I am facilitated by the application of an electric potential to my emitting element.
4. The greater the potential gradient near an emitting element, the more effective it is.
5. So an electron emitter that is based on me is usually made into a sharp point.
6. I operate at both high and low temperatures.
Who am I?

2) 
1. I am associated with an electromagnetic phenomenon.
2. I am important enough to be a separate law of nature and I am named for a physicist of old.
3. Wherever you find changing magnetic fields, there you can find me.
4. I describe the direction of the electromagnetic phenomenon which accompanies changing magnetic fields.
Who am I?

3)
 1. I am a named principle in physics
2. I am a definite principle, my name not notwithstanding
3. I have being interpreted to mean a natural restrictions on the pairs of measurement that can be simultaneously performed
4. However I only give bounds. Position and momentum are the common candidate for a discussion of me. But I have more general applicability when am formulated appropriately.
Who am I?

4)
 1. I am not a substance, even though I can be transferred from one body to another.
2. I cannot be said to be contained in the bodies.
3. When two bodies are in contact, I am spontaneously transferred from one of them to the other.
4. But I can also be transferred in the opposite direction. For this to happen, work must be done.
5. I am associated with energy, which I transfer in 3 modes: conduction, convection and radiation.
Who am I?
5) 
1. I am a heavy, silvery white metal slightly softer than steel.
2. When I am finely divided, I am attacked by water.
3. Generally I dissolve in acids but I am not affected by alkali.
4. I have as many as 14 isotopes which are all radioactive.
5. My most abundant isotope has a half-line of 4,500 million years.
Who am I?

6)
 1. I was born in Germany in 1879.
2. As a physicist, I have many accomplishments.
3. I was the first to solve the problem of electron emission from illuminated surfaces.
4. For this achievement I was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics.
5. However, I am better known for my formula E = mc2 which relates mass and energy.
Who am I?
                                                                                          7)
To the average citizen I am a nuisance. I am a phenomenon of nature. I am associated with waves of all kinds. I am observed when waves are combined. I can produce intensity that are larger than the intensity of the combined waves. I can also produce zero intensity. Who am I?
8)
I am associated with electromagnetic waves. By me you can obtain the energy of an object. I am a universal constant. My value is the same for all electromagnetic waves. No material object is known to have a speed greater than my value. Who am I?
    9)
I am an electromagnetic quantity. I am a type of current. I am unusual because I am not concerned with the actual transport of charges. I flow through the space separating the plates of a capacitor even though no charge ever crosses that space. I’m the current associated with a changing electric field . Who am I?
10)
I am a particle with mass. I am deflected by a inhomogeneous magnetic field which can split an unpolarized beam of me into two beams. I am composed of three spin half fractional charged particle. In the free state, I decay with a half life. Who am I?
11)
I am a phenomenon associated with electric and magnetic field. I am associated with time dependent electromagnetic fields. Who am I?
12)
I am a physical property of a substance. I am a measure of the ability of a material to conduct electricity.
13)
I am an elementary particle. I am a neutral spin one particle. I am massless. I am a particle that mediates electromagnetic interactions. Who am I?
14)
I am a named law in physics. I am applied in mechanics where together with two other laws, I am used to solve problems in dynamics. I am a law of motion. Who am I?
15)
I am a formula. I only involve addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. You may have first encountered me in your study of optics. I relate an optical property of as of a specific type of object to its geometry. And the formula that gives the power of the lens in terms of the radi of its services. Who am I?
16)
I am a measuring instrument. I operate on an equilibrium principle. Who am I?
17)
I am a named unit in the S.I system. I am a unit for a physical quantity that appears in several areas of physics. My S.I symbol is a single capital letter. Who am I?
18)
I am a close associate of work. And as a result, I am also found in the presence of forces and velocities. 
19)

