Distinguish between reptiles and amphibians with respect to the following. Type of respiratory organs Reproduction Type Mode of fertilization
Describe chordates with respect to the following. Body temperature Type of blood vascular system Germ layers
Indicate whether the following are anabolic or catabolic processes. Photosynthesis Excretion Cellular respiration
Describe hormones with respect to the following Site of action Fate of their chemical composition after reactions Type of glands that synthesize and secrete them
Distinguish between animal cells and plant cells with respect to the following Size and shape, Vacuoles, Golgi bodies
Describe oviparous animals with respect to the following. Mode of reproduction, Type of fertilization, Chance of survival of young ones
Indicate the type of chromosomal mutation to which the following descriptions refer. 
Results from the shift or transfer of a part of a chromosome or a set of genes to a non-homologous chromosome.
When a part of a chromosome is present in excess of the normal composition
It occurs due to the loss of a part of a chromosome as a result of the breakage of the chromosome.
Classify the following group of fungi as Zygomycetes, Ascomycetes or Deuteromycetes Mushrooms Yeasts Bracket fungi
Indicate the type of camouflage in animals to which the following refer.
The animal hides against a background of the same colour in order to protect themselves from predators and also for hunting their prey.
The dark spots or stripes found on the animal’s skin that are mainly used to camouflage themselves and to escape from their predators.
The change in an animal’s appearance or colour which gets the blend with their surroundings by their colour, texture and shape. It is mainly seen in insects like spiders, leaf butterfly, dragonfly katydid, stick bugs or stick insect
Mention one of the primary functions of RNA:
Indicate the benefits that plants or animals obtain by the presence of the following features.Sunken stomata and the folding of leaves, Spines and shells on animals, Long necks of come herbivores 
Explain the following with respect to the arrangements of vascular bundles in angiosperms. Conjoint, Bicollateral, Concentric vascular bundles.
Indicate the primary meristem that gives rise to the following cells. Sieve tube element, Guard cell, Vessel element
The genotypes of certain species of plants are represented as, TT, Bb, DD, bb, Dd.
Which of them are hybrids?
Which of them are homozygous?	
Which of the genotypes will be considered as pure breeds?
Indicate the part of dicotyledonous seed to which the following descriptions refer. The part that encloses and protects the seed from insects and fungi, and other pathogens, The hole which allows water to enter when the seed starts to germinate, The modified leaves containing food reserves.
Mention the terms that are used to describe the following with respect to the development of animals. 
How a cell diverges from its early morphology into a more specialized morphology.
Describes how cells, tissues, and organs are arranged in an organism 
The capability of certain embryonic cells to form any type of adult cell 
Classify the following under one of these types of behaviours in organisms. Communication Behavior, Territorial Behavior. Dispersal behaviour or Defensive behaviour
Ants use pheromones to determine if another ant is an intruder or a member of the colony.
Some animal species move away from the area in which they were born to live in other areas. 
A carnivorous organisms that bares its teeth and growls when cornered by a predator.
The human body is composed of just four basic kinds of tissue. Name one each.
Describe chromatids with respect to the following. Role in protein synthesis, Structure, Compactness compared to chromosome
What is a non-communicable disease?
What is the role of agents or vectors for the infection of non-communicable disease?
How do non communicable diseases spread from person to another?
Mention one of the four main supporting tissues in angiosperms.
Distinguish between cold blooded and warm blooded animals with respect to the following. Effect of temperature on their metabolic rates, Resistance against disease causing organisms, Heat source
Name the principal locomotory organs in the following organisms. Snails, Paramecium, Echinoderms
Name the type of connective tissue to which the following descriptions refer.
It eases joint movements; resists compression at joints and shapes outer ear.
Physically supports the body, provides movement, encloses and protects soft organs, stores and releases calcium and phosphorus.
Moves vocal cords; forerunner of foetal skeleton; growth zone of children's bones.
The leaves of plants have various tissues and structures that enable them perform their function. State how the following features adapt the leaves of plants to their function. Spongy layer, Thin epidermis, Network of veins
Mention the laws that describe the inheritance of alleles.
Give the ratio of the offspring with respect to the law of segregation
Give the ratio of the offspring with respect to the law of independent assortment 
Provide the names given to the following. Flowers without a calyx, A floral structure consisting of the calyx and corolla especially when the two whorls are fused, Flowers without a corolla
State one of the four common features of enzymes
Indicate what happens during the following stages of translation in protein synthesis. Initiation step, Elongation, Termination
What name is given to the male gametophyte of flowering plants?
In which part of filaments are pollen produced?
The filament and anther together constitute what structure?
Mention one of the main functions of epithelial tissue
Distinguish between Kwashiorkor and Marasmus with respect to the following. Muscle wasting, Prominence of ribs of the individuals, Type of diet that the individuals need, 
Indicate the part of the cell wall of plants to which the following descriptions refer
It serves as a cementing layer between the primary walls of adjacent cells.
It is responsible for most of the plant’s mechanical support as well as the mechanical properties prized in wood
It is formed between the middle lamella and plasma membrane in growing plant cells.
It is primarily composed of cellulose microfibrils contained within a gel-like matrix of hemicellulose fibers and pectin polysaccharides
Name the types of fruits to which the following descriptions refer
They possess a Close-fitting pericarp that surrounds a single seed. Eg sunflower
They possess a close-fitting pericarp fused to a single seed. eg corn
Fruit opening by several splits or pores as in cotton
In which part of animal cell are ribosomes parts made?
What kind of ribosomes makes proteins that remain inside the cell?
What causes the difference in appearance in the two kinds of endoplasmic reticulum?
Indicate the characteristics of flowers pollinated by the following agents. Bats, Small birds, Wind
Distinguish between vertebrates and invertebrates with respect to the following. Metamerism, Type of coelom, Position of gut in relation to nerve cord
Name the types of fruits to which the following descriptions refer. They possess pods that split along two opposite sides, They have a thick, woody pericarp that surrounds a single seed,  They are formed by fusion of several separate pistils of several grouped  flowers
Distinguish between an axon and a dendrite with respect to the following. Number per nerve cell, Direction of Conduction, Where they arise from
State one of the five main limitations of ecological pyramids. 
Describe cellular respiration with respect to the following. Cells in which it occurs, The exact site of the mitochondrion in which it occurs,     Where ATP synthesis occurs
Distinguish between xylem and phloem with respect the following. Location in the plant, Direction of movement of substances within them, Proportion of plant body
Distinguish between cytoplasm and nucleoplasm with respect to the following. Their location with respect to the nucleus, Cell types in which they can be found, Structures suspended in them
Distinguish between fertilization and pollination in flowering plants with respect to the following. Role of Pollen tube, Role of external agents, Function, Occurrence, 
Describe DNA with respect to the following. Location, Structure, Major enzyme involved in propagation, Ultraviolet (UV) Sensitivity
Distinguish between blood plasma and serum with respect to the following. Cell arrangement, Discoloration on standing, Feasibility of Separation, Clotting factors.
Describe anabolic reactions with respect to the following. Oxygen utilization, Energy Conversion, Effect on the Human Body, Energy and Heat Requirement.
