Which property of soil is determined by the proportion of sand, silt and clay sized particles that make up the mineral fraction of the soil.
How many mitotic divisions are required to produce 128 cells from a single cell? 
In mitosis, each cell divides into two. Hence, starting from a single cell, the number of cells will increase as per the following progression- 1→2→4→8→16→32→64→128. 
Name the tissue in dicotyledonous plants that possesses cells which have a rich deposition of starch grains and is referred to as starch sheath
Which of the following muscles are normally controlled by the autonomic nervous system? Skeletal muscle, Smooth muscle, cardiac muscle
Which type of tropism is responsible for the growth of pollen tube towards the ovule? 
Which of the limbs of birds are modified into wings, which assist them in their flight?
Which polymer of glucose is stored by animals?
What name is given to the type of sexual reproduction in protists, where true gametes are not formed, but two mature individuals fuse together to form a zygote?
What is the function of the iris in the eye?
What name is given to the functional unit (contractile unit) of a muscle fiber?
Name the plant group, and the organ in which one can locate Bulliform cells.
What is the most abundant type of RNA present in a cell?
Which of the following is a non-myelinated nerve fiber?  (A) Optic nerves (B) Cranial nerves (C) Spinal nerves (D) Autonomic nerves
Why do plants die when watered excessively?
Why is thorn on plants considered a modified branch?
An individual may suffer from both myopia and hypermetropia defects. What name is given to this condition?
What causes presbyopia in an individual?
What type of lens is often required by an individual suffering from presbyopia?
Name the macronutrient whose deficiency leads to premature leaf fall.
Trypsin is related to the digestion of which macromolecule?
What name is given to the process of removing seeds from cotton?
What name is given to the organ which surrounds the organs in the abdomen and suspends them from the abdominal wall.
Name the plant tissue that allows branches of a tree to move and bend freely in high wind velocity.
Who proposed the inheritance of acquired characters?
Birds, reptiles, and turtles are all thought to share a common ancestor. Assuming this is true, these groups of animals, including their most common recent ancestor, would be considered under which kind of taxonomic group?
Why is the peritoneum around the heart not considered a mesentery?
What is lyophilization with respect to food preservation?
What name is given to the sequence of arrangement of taxonomic categories in a descending order during the classification of an organism. 
In ecology, what are Keystone species?
Which structure in bacteria ensures their survival through periods of environmental stress?
Name the four major classes of fungi named by classical botanists.





















