Indicate whether the following are true or false with respect to binomial nomenclature rules for writing the scientific names of organisms
 The names are underlined when handwritten, or italicized if typed. This is done to specify its     English     origin.
There exist two parts of a name. The first word identifies the genus and the second word identifies the family. 
The name of the genus starts with a capital letter and the name of the species starts with a small letter.
Mendel’s Law of independent assortment holds good for genes situated
on non-homologous chromosomes
Mendel’s Law of independent assortment holds good for genes situated
on extranuclear genetic elements
Mendel’s Law of independent assortment holds good for genes situated
on the same chromosome
Consumers are the group of organisms that feed on producers, directly or indirectly for energy.
Consumers reside in separate trophic levels, as primary and secondary consumers. 
Abiotic factors of the ecosystem are responsible for capturing the energy for the conversion of inorganic compounds into organic compounds.
The human forebrain comprises the cerebrum, hypothalamus, and the thalamus. 
The main component of the human brain is formed by the thalamus which is separated
longitudinally by a cleft into 2 halves
The thalamus is contained in the cerebrum which coordinates motor and sensory signalling.

The offspring formed by sexual reproduction exhibit more variation than
those formed by asexual reproduction because sexual reproduction is a lengthy process.
The offspring formed by sexual reproduction exhibit more variation than
those formed by asexual reproduction because gametes of parents have qualitatively different genetic composition
The offspring formed by sexual reproduction exhibit more variation than
those formed by asexual reproduction because genetic material comes from parents of two different species



The inner ear has 3 bones – the malleus(hammer), the stapes(stirrup) and incus(anvil) which are attached in a chain-like pattern.
The malleus is connected to the oval window of cochlea and the stapes is connected to the tympanic membrane. 
The inner ear comprises a labyrinth of chambers filled with fluids inside the temporal bone of the skull. 

Indicate whether the following are true or false with respect to lenticels 
They are active during the day.
They facilitate transpiration and exchange of gases.
Their opening and closing can be regulated.

Indicate whether the following are true or false with respect to examples of ammonification. 
Conversion of nitrogen into ammonia by nitrogen fixers
Conversion of nitrates into ammonia by nitrogen fixers 
Conversion of urea into ammonia by decomposers



Indicate whether the following are true or false with respect to the functions of amino acids
Gene expression and protein phosphorylation cascade regulators.
Precursors for hormones and nitrogenous substances
Regulate key metabolic pathways necessary for maintenance, growth, reproduction, and immunity. 

The amniotic sac is the pouch that encloses the unborn foetus until its birth.
 The amniotic sac is made up of an outer amnion and an inner chorion membrane.                 
Unborn babies are able to ingest amniotic fluid before releasing it, as they have yet to breathe through their still-developing lungs which will require oxygen from the outside environment.

Species richness only considers the number of different species in an ecosystem, not their distribution.
Tropical rainforests are the most diverse of the terrestrial ecosystems
The higher the number of species that can be supported in an ecosystem, the lower the rate of survival for every organism inside that ecosystem.

Indicate whether the following are true or false with respect to bronchioles
They carry oxygen-rich air into the lungs and carry carbon dioxide-rich air out of the lungs
The smooth muscle that surrounds the bronchioles can constrict or dilate the airway, which can aid in getting the proper amount of oxygen into the blood.
As bronchi transition into bronchioles, they lose some of the structural elements that define a bronchus.


The control of body temperature in humans is a good example of homeostasis in a biological system. 
The regulation of body temperature of humans is controlled by a region in the brain called the hypothalamus. 
Homeostasis in ecosystems is a product of the combination of biodiversity and large numbers of ecological interactions that occur between species.

Indicate whether the following are true or false with respect to dichotomous keys
They can be used to identify an organism by its scientific name.
They can be used by anyone, even without specialized scientific knowledge.
They can sometimes experience errors because closely related species may share many of the same characteristics.



Ocean currents carry nutrients and food to organisms that live permanently attached in one place. 
The constantly evaporating ocean waters create rain, thunderstorms, and hurricanes by reducing the temperature and humidity of the air.
Phytoplankton and zooplankton live in the upper areas of the ocean and use photosynthesis to make their food 

Indicate whether the following are true or false with respect to the functions of the mucous membrane
To absorb nutrients from food
To keep the body dry
To help break down odours so that they may be detected and smelled.




In young trees and young parts of older trees, all of the wood in the stem consist of heartwood.
 Tree stems increase in diameter during each year of growth because a new layer of wood cells is added outside the cambium
The colour of wood can be very misleading when one wants to distinguish between heartwood and sapwood; because not all heartwood is dark and not all dark-colored wood is heartwood

Indicate whether the following are true or false with respect to the reason why microscopic and macroscopic organisms must have different methods for motility
Microscopic structures like flagella would likely not be able to push a large animal very far.
Complex tissues like muscles require the close cooperation of many cells within the same organism. 
Macroscopic organisms cannot relocate their cytoplasm the same way microorganisms can.



Indicate whether the following are true or false about plant gravitropism
Plant shoots show positive gravitropism and roots show negative gravitropism
Plant shoots and roots both show positive gravitropism.
Plant shoots and roots both show negative gravitropism


After the replication of a cell’s DNA, there are twice as many centromeres as there are chromatids.
Cells that seldom divide spend most of their time in interphase
The information needed by a cell to direct its activities and to determine its characteristics is contained in molecules of protein














