I am an important process in various research and clinical laboratory techniques. I have been considered both a creative force in plant evolution and evolutionary noise. Plant biologists continue to evaluate my significance. It is usually asserted that I am more frequent in plants than in animals. I can also be defined as the interbreeding of individuals from 2 distinct populations or groups of populations. I may contribute directly to the origin of species, either as a result of reinforcement or hybrid speciation. WHO AM I? 
I am a type of reversible oxidation-reduction reaction. I am one of the major degradation pathways which convert essential amino acids to non-essential amino acids. My pathway is responsible for the deamination of most amino acids. I am mediated by several different aminotransferase enzymes. These enzymes may be specific for individual amino acids, or they may be able to process a group of chemically similar ones. I am a chemical reaction that transfers an amino group to a ketoacid to form new amino acids. WHO AM I? 



                 I am a biological process
My name comes from a Latin word, which literally means “glueing to” 
My name is commonly used in blood grouping.
In microbiology, I am commonly used as a method of identifying specific bacterial antigens and the identity of such bacteria,
I am the process that occurs if an antigen is mixed with its corresponding antibody called isoagglutinin. 
	WHO AM I? 



I am a biological concept that has been theorized
I occur when traits that predispose organisms to survive in an environment are passed from parents to their offspring 
I am the cornerstone behind Charles Darwin's theory of evolution. 
Practically speaking, I occur when mutations (changes) to an organism's DNA are advantageous. 
I can be defined as the process through which species adapt to their environment in order to survive. 
	WHO AM I?  




I am a term which was coined by Julian Huxley and Georges Tessier in 1936, when I was applied to the phenomenon of relative growth. 
My name was originally used to refer to the scaling relationship between the size of a body part and the size of the body as a whole, as both grow during development. 
However, more recently, my meaning has been modified and expanded to refer to biological scaling relationships in general.
In genetics, I describe how phenotypic traits increase relative to the increase of the size of the organism.
I describe the covariation generally observed between morphological, physiological and life-history traits and the size of organisms
	WHO AM I? 


I am part of the male reproductive system
My name comes from Latin words which literally mean "carrying-away vessel"
I am innervated by a variety of different types of nerve ending.
I consist of two ducts which connect the left and right epididymis with the seminal vesicles to form the ejaculatory duct.
In vasectomy, I am the structure which is permanently cut
	WHO AM? 

I am a sexual process in which two lower organisms of the same species exchange nuclear material during a temporary union.
I am one of the three major known modes of genetic exchange between bacteria.
Of the three modes, I am the only one that involves cell-to-cell contact.
Two types of me occur in spirogyra, scalariform and lateral.
I am the main form of sexual reproduction in the zygomycota fungi, giving rise to the name “conjugated fungi”
	WHO AM I? 


I am a type of trait
I may be modified variously by environmental conditions 
I am usually governed by many factors or genes (perhaps 10 or 100 or more) 
Each factor contributes such a small amount of phenotype 
  The individual effects of such factors cannot be detected by Mendelian methods but by only statistical methods.
WHO AM I? 
 
I am an organ made of mesoderm cells.
For many decades, I was often not considered an organ because of my thin and convoluted nature.
Because I am formed during embryogenesis, I end up getting twisted and turned as the gut develops
I function as a complex organ which carries nutrients away from the intestine while at the same time protecting it from infection
I surround all of the organs in the abdomen.
	WHO AM I? 








I am a biological phenomenon first described in 1904 by a Danish physiologist 
There is a debate over whether he was actually the first to discover my phenomenon
Or whether the Russian physiologist Bronislav Verigo beat him to it
Another challenge to the Danish physiologist’s discovery comes from within his own lab.
Though there is some evidence to support some of these arguments, retroactively changing the name of a well-known phenomenon would be extremely impractical, so I remain in the Danish physiologist’s name 
I am the phenomenon that refers to the observation that increases in the carbon dioxide partial pressure
of blood or decreases in blood pH result in a lower affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen
	WHO AM I?

In human anatomy, I am a depression or fissure where structures such as blood
vessels and nerves enter an organ. 
For some species of fungi, I am the microscopic indentation left on a spore when it separates from the sterigma of the basidium 
I can also be a nucleus of a starch grain; the point around which layers of starch are deposited.
In botany, I am a scar on a seed or spore created by detachment
On a bean seed, I am called the "eye"

WHO AM I? 

I can represent a wide array of biological units, from individual organisms to individual neurons in the brain
In general, I am a localized swelling (a "knot") or a point of intersection (a vertex).
To the computer scientist I am a basic unit of a data structure,
In physics, I am a point along a standing wave where the wave has minimal amplitude
In Botany, I am a specific point on the stem from where leaves start growing 
WHO AM I?       




I am a biological process that has been known in China since AD 1117, and was documented in Japan  
I have been named after a French microbiologist
Whose research in the 1860s demonstrated that thermal processing would deactivate unwanted microorganisms in wine 
Today, I am used widely in the dairy industry and other food processing industries to achieve food preservation and food safety 
I am the process in which packaged and non-packaged foods are treated with mild heat, to eliminate pathogens and extend shelf life. 
WHO AM I? 




I am a biological process 
The scientific usage of my name is technically precise, and it is not applied to general aspects of cell growth.
My effect modifies the entire body of an organism. 
These modifications include the maturation of enzymes, blood cells, the remodeling of the nervous systems and digestive systems.
In an insect or amphibian, I am the process of transformation from an immature form to an adult form in two or more distinct stages.
WHO AM I? 

